# CS310 - Third Year Project (Norm Emergence with forgiveness)
Social norms are patterns of behaviour that exist within a system where there is no central authority. The reason for a system such as this to exist range from privacy requirements to the efficiency of a system. As a result, these norms are needed for the individual entities to communicate with each other in a cooperative manner. These patterns are promoted through a mechanism called metanorms which dictates that one must punish those that do not follow the norm. The aim of this project is to investigate the effectiveness of metanorms in different topological systems and to introduce a forgiveness mechanism to the model.
Whilst Axelrod’s model shows how norms can be established within a population, it assumes that the network is complete, with all entities able to observe all other entities in the network. However, in real world applications, this may not always be the case and clusters of nodes may appear instead, with fewer connections to other clusters throughout the network as well as each node having much fewer connections. Systems like these can be seen everywhere, for example a university may have many nodes in its network, but not all students will have a connection with everyone else in that network. Instead, the students will form clusters of groups due to the characteristics of each person such as attending the same course or being a part of the same societies, and each cluster of students will have connections to other clusters in the network randomly.
The project will also introduce a new forgiveness model whereby observers that see an agent that does not comply with the norm in the system will also be given an option to forgive the act. In the real world, this mechanism may reflect someone who has committed an act of defiance but is not severe enough to receive a harsh punishment from an observer. Within the project, the way this interaction works has yet to be confirmed, however the general idea is that the agent that doesn’t comply ends up paying a small to no cost for that interaction.
